# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Getting started with Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portals
  
## Exercise 1: Customizing the Azure portal interface
  
#### Task 1: Connect to the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com. 
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 


#### Task 2: Explore and customize the Azure portal interface
  
1.   Once the Azure portal loads, view the tiles on the dashboard, noting the service health of the Azure datacenters.
2.   Click the **Service health** tile, and then in the resulting blade, note the service issues view. Click **Planned maintenance**, **Health advisories**, and **Resource health**. Note that you can customize each view by filtering categories of items that you are interested in, such as region, service type, or resource type.  
3.   Click **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to return to the dashboard.
4.   To expand the **Hub** menu, click the **Show menu** icon directly underneath the **Microsoft Azure** label.
5.   In the **Hub** menu, click **+New**.
6.   On the **New** blade, review the list of available options, but do not select any.
7.   On the **Hub** menu, click **More services** and then, in the list of entries, click **Subscriptions**.
8.   On the **Subscriptions** blade, right-click the entry that represents your subscription, and then click **Pin to dashboard** in the context menu.
9.   Click the **Notification** icon (bell) in the horizontal bar in the upper-right part of the portal page, and then verify that the subscription tile was pinned to dashboard successfully.
10.   Click **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to return to the dashboard.
11.   Verify that a new tile that represents your subscription appears on the dashboard.
12.   Leave the Microsoft Edge window that shows the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have signed in to the Azure portal and customized its interface successfully.


## Exercise 2: Viewing billing, usage, and quotas data
  
#### Task 1: View resource cost and usage in the Azure portal
  
1.   In the Microsoft Edge window that displays the Azure portal, click the dashboard tile that represents your subscription.
2.   On the current blade, note the pie chart that shows **Costs by resource**. Click the pie chart to display the **Costs by resource** blade, which shows a detailed breakdown of resource costs.
3.   Scroll back to the blade that shows your subscription within the Azure portal and click **Usage + quotas**. 
4.   On the current blade, note the current usage and the quotas for different types of resources. 
> **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges and does not include any resources. In this case, you will see a message that usage or billing data is not available. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.


#### Task 2: View billing data in the Azure Account Center
  
1.   In the Azure portal, on the subscription blade, click **Overview**.
2.   Click **Manage**. This will open another Microsoft Edge tab, which automatically redirects you to https://account.windowsazure.com.
3.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   On the summary page, note that the **OVERVIEW** tab is active. Review its contents.
5.   Click **Download usage details**. This will automatically redirect you to the **BILLING HISTORY** tab.
6.   Click **Download usage** for the most recent billing period. Note that you have the option of downloading Version 1 or Version 2 - Preview usage data. The latter includes data representing custom tags that you can assign to individual resources or groups of resources. This helps you with identifying charges associated with resources that share common tags.
7.   Do not download the usage report. To view the report, you must use Microsoft Excel, which is not installed on your computer.
