# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Web Apps and cloud services
# Lab: Web Apps and cloud services
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring a WordPress web app
  
#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** vertical menu, on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
3.   On the **New** blade, in the **Search the marketplace** box, type **WordPress**, and then press Enter.
4.   On the **Everything** blade, in the list of results, click **WordPress** from **WordPress**.
5.   On the **WordPress** blade, click **Create**.
6.   On the **WordPress** blade, specify the following settings:

  -   App name: _A unique name consisting of letters, digits, and hyphens_

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource Group: _Ensure that the **Create new** option is selected, and then type in **10979D04-LabRG01**_.

7.   In the **Database Provider** drop-down list, select **MySQL in App**.
7.   Click **App Service plan/Location**.
8.   On the **App Service plan** blade, click **Create New**.
9.   On the **New App Service plan** blade, in the **App Service plan** text box, type **10979D04-SP1**.
10.   In the **Location** drop-down list, select the Azure region that is closest to your classroom location and that is available in your Azure subscription.
11.   Ensure that **S1 Standard** is listed as the **Pricing tier**, and then click **OK**.
12.   Ensure that **Application Insights** setting is set to **Off**.
13.   Select the **Pin to dashboard** check box, and then click **Create**.
    > **Note:** Wait until the web app is created, which might take a couple of minutes.

14.   After it is created, the WordPress web app blade will open automatically in the Azure portal interface.


#### Task 2: Install WordPress
  
1.   On the WordPress web app blade, click the link underneath the **URL** label. This will automatically open a new tab in Microsoft Edge displaying your new website.
2.   On the WordPress website, in the languages list, click **English (United States)**, and then click **Continue**. 
3.   On the Welcome page, complete the **Information needed** section with the following:

  -   Site Title: **Adatum_Blog_######** (_where **######** is a unique number_)

  -   Username: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

  -   Your E-mail: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Leave the **Search Engine Visibility** with its default setting.


4.   Click **Install WordPress**. 
5.   Wait for the installation to complete.
> **Note:** If your connection to the web app times out, refresh the Microsoft Edge window.


#### Task 3: Create a blog post
  
1.   In Microsoft Edge, on the WordPress web app webpage, click **Log in** and in the **Username or Email** box, type the email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd0401**.
3.   Select the **Remember Me** check box, and then click **Log In**.
    > **Note:** If prompted by Microsoft Edge to store the password for the website, click **No**.

4.   On the **Dashboard** page, click **Write your first blog post**.
5.   On the **Add New Post** page, in the text box below **Add New Post**, type **Welcome to the Adatum blog**
6.   In the main text box, type **Welcome to the Adatum blog**.
7.   Click **Publish**.
8.   Click **View Post**. Your new post appears. 
9.   Close the Microsoft Edge tab displaying the WordPress interface, and then return to the Azure portal tab.
10.   Close Microsoft Edge.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured an Azure web app to support WordPress blogs. 


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
